Hi everyone, and
welcome to this SvelteKit workshop.
This is part of a two part course.
The other session introduced Svelte and
today we're gonna be learning about
SvelteKit, which is an application
framework that uses Svelte.
My name is Rich Harris,
I am the creator of Svelte.
And today,
we're going to be learning how to build
full stack applications using SvelteKit.
So if you're brand new to Svelte then I
recommend doing the Svelte workshop before
embarking on this SvelteKit workshop.
But if you're already familiar with
Svelte, then it's totally fine,
it's not a prerequisite, you can dive
straight into learning about SvelteKit.
And we're gonna be doing that
today using learn.svelte.dev,
which is our interactive
tutorial platform.
And the first part of the session today,
we're gonna go through part three of
the tutorial,
which is the introduction to SvelteKit.
Then after that, we're gonna learn
some advanced SvelteKit techniques.
Then finally, we're gonna build
a full-stack application using
authentication, APIs, and a database.
So let's start by learning
about what SvelteKit is.
Svelte is a component framework, you use
it to build little chunks of your user
interface declaratively out of components.
SvelteKit is an application framework
sometimes called a meta framework,
and it solves the rest of the problem
of building an application that you can
deploy to your users.
It has features like routing, server-side
rendering, data fetching, service workers,
TypeScript integration, pre-rendering,
single-page apps, library packaging,
optimized production builds, deploying to
different hosting providers, and so on.
Right, there's a lot in there, it might
seem a little bit intimidating, but
don't worry, we're gonna go through,
and it'll all make sense before long.
SvelteKit apps are server
rendered by default.
So like a traditional multi-page app,
or MPA,
you get the excellent first load and
SEO characteristics of a traditional app.
But then we transition to
client side navigation,
like a modern single page app, so
that instead of reloading everything when
your users navigate from one page to
another, everything loads instantly.
SvelteKit apps can run
anywhere that JavaScript runs.
They'll run on load,
they'll run on Dino, they'll run on bun,
they'll run on edge functions,
and serverless functions.
And as we'll see, your users might not
need to rent any JavaScript at all.
You can also deploy your applications
as fully static pre-rendered apps where
that's appropriate.
So let's talk about the project
structure of a SvelteKit app.
When you create a new SvelteKit app,
you'll be left with something like
what you see on the right here.
We'll go through some
of these files in turn.
Package.json is something that will be
familiar to you if you've used Node
before.
It lists all of the project's
dependencies, including Svelte and
SvelteKit, and a variety of scripts for
interacting with the CLI.
So right now we're running npm run dev in
the iframe at the bottom of the screen
that you can see.
You'll notice that in the package dot
JSON we are specifying type module.
This makes the project a modern
ESM project as opposed to a legacy
common JS project, which means that
all of the JavaScript files in
your app modern ESM format
instead of common JS.
Next file is the svelte.config JS,
this contains your project configuration.
Don't really need to worry about this for
the purpose of this tutorial, but
if you're curious, then you can learn more
about what goes into the configuration
file on the reference documentation.
Next up is the Vite config.
So, SvelteKit uses Vite,
which is a development server and
build tool that allows you to
build apps very fast using all
of the modern techniques
like hot module reloading.
It has out-of-the-box support for
TypeScript and all of those other things,
and SvelteKit by extension
gets all of those benefits.
The most important part of our
VConfig is this line here.
Where we're invoking the SvelteKit plugin.
The bit below you can ignore,
that's just something that
we need within the tutorial.
The source directory is where
your app source code goes.
We have an app.html, this defines the
shape of the response that you get when
you visit the SvelteKit app.
In this tutorial, we've got a bunch of
inline styles that we're gonna be using at
various stages through the tutorial,
but the interesting part of this
SvelteKit head section and all the way
at the bottom, a SvelteKit body.
These are the bits that SvelteKit
populates with the HTML and
the meta content that relates to
the page that the user has requested.
And then finally,
the static directory contains any assets,
like a favicon, that are included
when your app is deployed.